# Machine-learning-accelerates-fuel-cell-life-testing
A code library for reading and preprocessing public battery dataset

## 1.简介（Introduction）
本代码库包含3个电池数据集的读取、预处理、双点特征提取和模型预测的python代码库。该代码旨在方便地访问电池数据，并为电池健康管理领域的分析准备数据。

This codebase contains Python code for reading, preprocessing, two-point feature extraction, and model prediction for 3 battery datasets. The code is designed to provide convenient access to battery data and prepare the data for analysis in the field of battery health management.

## 2.数据集（Datasets）
### 2.1 Dataset 1：[https://doi.org/10.6084/ m9.figshare.25450177]
The composition and morphology of the cathode catalyst layer (CCL) have a significant impact on the performance and stability of polymer electrolyte membrane fuel cells (PEMFC). Understanding the primary degradation mechanism of the CCL and its influencing factors is crucial for optimizing PEMFC performance and durability. Within this work, we present comprehensive in-situ characterization data focused on cathode catalyst degradation. The dataset consists of 36 unique durability tests with over 4000 testing hours, including variations in the cathode ionomer to carbon ratio, platinum on carbon ratio, ionomer equivalent weight, and carbon support type. The applied accelerated stress tests were conducted with different upper potential limits and relative humidities. Characterization techniques including IV-curves, limiting current measurements, electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, and cyclic voltammetry were employed to analyse changes in performance, charge and mass transfer, and electrochemically active surface area of the catalyst. The aim of the dataset is to improve the understanding of catalyst degradation by allowing comparisons across material variations and provide practical information for other researchers in the field.

### 2.2 Dataset 2: [https://doi.org/10.25835/yun7znp0]
Electrolysis is expected to play an essential role in future energy systems that rely on renewable energy sources, especially in achieving climate neutrality in sectors that are challenging to electrify directly. The economic success of this technology is largely dependent on effective predictive maintenance, which requires a clear understanding of the systems’ current and future state-of-health to ensure adequate replacement planning with decreasing efficiency and prevent undesired aging-related failures. Given the incomplete physical understanding and mathematical description of degradation processes, while more and more data is becoming available, data-driven machine learning models are increasingly moving into focus. These models can learn underlying relationships from data without necessitating prior knowledge. Therefore, this study concentrates on predicting the degradation trend of a proton exchange membrane water electrolysis cell using a data-driven machine learning approach. To this end, a comprehensive datadriven modeling matrix is proposed and evaluated through selected practically relevant modeling concepts, which are characterized by different combinations of available training data and desired model outputs. Experimentally, this is facilitated by a targeted accelerated stress test consisting of operating and characterization phases. The applied machine learning pipeline, covering the hierarchical sequence of necessary data preprocessing and modeling steps, is presented in detail to ensure the traceability and reproducibility of the methodology from data collection to model testing and evaluation. As a major finding, it was demonstrated that the degradation trend prediction for the entire polarization curve can be realized using only typical operating data. This represents an initial step toward predicting the complete cell characteristic without interrupting ongoing operation for corresponding measurements.
### 2.3 Dataset 3: [https://phm-datasets.s3.amazonaws.com/NASA/12.+Capacitor+Electrical+Stress.zip]
The increased complexity of systems integrating multiphysics components of highly diverse natures drastically changes the methods used to study how these systems age.
Indeed, historically these systems possessed few failure modes and even fewer embedded sensors enabling surveillance of progressive degradation; prediction of lifetime was thus essentially based on pre-established models of deficiency.Henceforth, the modeling of systems behaviors will very likely be more complex, but a great number of sensors will be embedded so as to render their real state easier to observe. For example, the automobile of the future will probably need tune-ups based on a prognosis of the aging of its components as calculated in real time, rather than on a pre-defined calendar.

## 3. 代码结构及用法(Code Structure and Usage)
本代码库包含三个文件夹，分别是Dataset1、Dataset2、Dataset3，每个文件夹下都包含.py文件，对应数据集的特征提取方法和机器学习算法进行模型的训练和测试，并采用MAE、MAPE、RMSE和R2评价方法进行结果评估。

This code repository contains three folders, namely Dataset1, Dataset2, and Dataset3. Each folder contains a. py file, which corresponds to the feature extraction methods and machine learning algorithms of the dataset for model training and testing. The results are evaluated using MAE, MAPE, RMSE, and R2 evaluation methods.
